hello there I'm John Oliver but you can
just call me Charlotte's because I'm
only putting this message on the web now
now we are off at the moment but tonight
or whenever this is for you I would like
to talk to you about push notifications
are the only worst thing to get on your
cell phone than an actual phone call oh
cool Who am I
televisions dr. Frasier Crane no
now in theory push notifications are way
for news apps and organizations to keep
subscribers informed of important
time-sensitive information you know
things like declarations of war
earthquakes and acts of terrorism but in
reality there are means for us to learn
that the remains of Neanderthal child
from 115,000 years ago found in Poland
showed the child was at least partially
eaten by a giant bird that is a real
news alert and you know what word
intrigues me here partially did the
giant bird save the leftovers
I'm the under thought children like
Chinese food always better the next day
it's a rhetorical question I don't
actually know I'm not a hundred thousand
year old bird despite all evidence to
the contrary look I'm not saying it's
not interesting to know some ancient
bird exercises portion control I'm
simply saying the fact that someone
actually thought this merited a push
notification is certifiably insane
because ideally push alerts should clear
exactly two bars one is there something
I should be doing differently
and two is this something I need to know
now if the answer to each of those
questions is no it should not be
invading your phone so let's take a look
at some examples that do and do not
adhere to that code of conduct here's
one from the Washington Post warning me
not to eat any kind of romaine lettuce
criteria 1 is it actionable should I be
doing something differently well I would
say definitely had I been the sort of
person who eats romaine lettuce I would
have needed to stop doing that luckily
I'm an iceberg guy iceberg the lettuce
that's 96 percent water it's
so food are more a naturally-occurring
utensil for blue cheese dressing now
second criteria is it time-sensitive
again definitely I could have been
tongue deep in sweet green and
parenthetically tongue deep in sweet
green sounds like the title of a
salacious tell-all by Shrek's lover for
example for example of a news alert that
fails this test look no further than
this one from the New York Times the
case of a serial killer nurse who may
have murdered 300 patients is raising an
uncomfortable question for Germany why
wasn't he stopped now is it actionable
no I'd argue not really is it
time-sensitive
no again the dead are dead and they
generally tend to stay dead unless they
don't in which case that news will merit
a very different type of news alerts
like zombies are real and they're not
vaccinating their children now news
organizations frequently phrase non news
alerts in the form of rhetorical
questions like when The Times asked is
the new Vanity Fair cover a louis
vuitton ad and CNN wondered can the
milkman save the climate and hold on
hold on a second Louis Vuitton milk
talked about 1% concerns yes
[Applause]
I did it I did it yes
not to be clear I'm not espousing some
blanket anti push notification platform
sometimes they're objectively useful
like we're NPR blows up your phone with
something like this mama you're never
going to die right children can have
tough questions here are 5 tips for how
to answer them Wow
I'll say this if you're a parent whose
child just asked if you were mortal I
can only imagine just how grateful you
were to feel your phone buzzed with that
interruption am I gonna die well that
that's a tough one kid oh sorry it's
sorry I just I just got an important
message so let's table this discussion
for a very different time if because the
thing is as annoying as they may be a
push alert can be a conversation ending
miracle not literally a miracle of
course obviously those don't exist and
on a related note kids mommy is going to
die she is kids
she's definitely dying back in February
we'll see you then goodbye
you